what's up guys geez two cents here and
I'm here with freaking fail it's weird
or doing the same thing with our hands
that's what you naturally do on a table
no no well there's other things you can
do on a table but anyway you guys know
he's got a twitch now you guys should go
follow it it's at freaking filth that
way no yes it puts pressure on him
anyway we've got a little bit of
distance going here but if you can turn
down by this being too close to each
other trust me our contract tres is
really easy to follow contract Street
contract tres because we have no friends
and we don't go anywhere
pretty much fragile design is proud to
introduce their new Celsius plus lineup
of all-in-one cpu water coolers
available in either dynamic or Prisma
the Tisza class pump face reveals the
LED backlight logo and a RGB LED effects
while the smart auto control dynamically
adjust pump and fan speeds based on
temperature for the perfect balance of
silence and cooling performance to see
the full list of features and sizes
available
head to the sponsored link in the
description below alright so here we go
this is the third take of this video
only cuz Phil and I really like to talk
and I want this video to be concise or
five hours yeah I want to have a
discussion in under 20 minutes and
that's hard for us we're gonna talk
about Intel's 10th gen processors the
information launched today we had the
meeting with them a few days ago but I
didn't make a video for the 6 a.m.
embargo because there's no point and the
six Annalee launch but it's interesting
a lot to talk about some things we have
some questions about and let's go and
get started so let's just start at the
top
5.3 diggers of 2 ass so let's just
quickly talk about the spec of the new
top-tier mainstream processor it's a z4
90 chipset brand new motherboard new
cutoff no backwards compatibility
starting here forward so if you had a z3
90 and you were hoping that this would
work in that or if you are hoping that
you could get this cpu with an older
motherboard not gonna happen
different chipset different socket type
everything up to five point three
gigahertz it is a 10 core 20 thread up
to five four point three gigahertz
125 watt TDP that even has an Asterix of
its own up to 40 PCIe lanes again so
they get to discuss their all core turbo
frequency of up to four point eight
boost of up to 4.9 of all court yeah
well when it cost $488 there you go by
now no I'm kidding I need that for the
same price of what the Niner K was
you're getting more I mean there's that
isolettes intel turbo boost and thermo
velocity boost and we were already
playing these slides up obviously I'm
getting so you guys already know turbo
boost basically it's just like I can go
faster than the base clock for a set
amount of time that's it and then if
we're not melting yeah if we're not
melting we're not hitting we're not
pulling more power than the CPU is
allowing unless you turn it off in the
middle of a stock if you're melting
melting so but anyway well you're not
going to turbo if your man quarter Hertz
at a time okay so thermal velocity boost
is an addition to the turbo boost
technology that we're all familiar with
basically any time you're under 70
degrees and you're within the Turbo
Power window you get the up to five
point three yards on two cores the two
favorite cores on the 10 to 99 I'm not
explaining the favorite cores right
that's that's that's GP boost technology
3.0 yeah so call me on this because I
don't know if they do it during bidding
or if it does it in software but it
basically picks the most the two most
efficient cooler cores to run at the
highest speeds so you hit that 5.3 on
those two cores on those two ports up to
about 56 seconds I think you said and
none tell ya that the default the
default turbo boost time is 60 like 56
seconds so even if you're not melting
you're gonna drop down below that after
that time of it yep your dress is 5.1
was it on me on the single solar floor
yeah yeah no five point to that same
technology just described though also
applies to all core yes which is the all
core max
thermal velocity boost technology and
all core turbo frequency a four point
nine yes so this is one of those things
where water cooling kind of makes
somewhat of a beneficial purchase again
because before we were like those laws
are under 105 you're fine right yeah but
now if you're under 70 and you haven't
touched any of those overclocking
settings who's your the kind of person
that would buy an overclocking CPU but
you're free to overclock it but if you
were doing that out of the box and it's
a cold day it's gonna ramp up to these
for a little while anyway yeah it says
thermal design power 125 but
realistically it's more like it's
it's like cough it up to 250 ish uh non
tech offered a estimate of 250 to 350
and then the motherboard manufacturers
pretty much cooperating that so yeah
that's usually around where it's at
anyway
yeah so that's custom that's so why they
did the yeah why they added thermal
velocity boost this is great for gaming
type workloads and really bursty
workloads which is pretty much most
people's workloads like most people
don't hammer all the cores for a really
long time I do yeah we yeah that's what
we do is like go to the board you're on
the running citizen she walk gaming for
no reason or not but it's like yeah
video rendering CG rendering those are
really the only like yeah and any other
type of like really parallel workload so
the only times you're gonna fully load a
processor for the most part it slaves a
lot of this with you good yeah you know
weird you just playing are you just
playing modern modern worker whatever I
digress
platform PCIe lanes 3 3.0 lanes up to 40
and it says that for every skew because
that's going to be dependent on your
motherboard and we were like what the
heck 40 oh it's up to and then we
realize platform
so we're thinking it's probably it's
gonna be whatever your CPI your CPU PCIe
lanes are plus your Plus you PCH I think
it's a little curious that they don't
list the CPUs PCIe lanes on this deck
but it's probably gonna be 16 yeah
that's why we think it's right I think
semi 16 because I can't see them adding
two more cores and allowing them to make
it 24 whatever yeah cuz if you think
about the Zen to and then suddenly
having a billion PCIe lanes it's because
they redesigned their whole IO thing
it's on a separate title and this is
again 14 nanometer + + + Asterix - yes -
s ok and it's literally a nun in turkey
with two more cores and the the terms
3.0 and velocity boost
there's basically four skis for the i9
but there's really only two there's a
can on K and then there's an F for each
which is just where they lop off the IDP
you now the non K does have a difference
here that the K version has up to three
point seven base clock speed the nine
hundreds up to two point eight now you
lose a hundred megahertz on the turbo
frequency across the board you lose up
to three hundred megahertz on the all
core and it's only up to four point five
on the all four without velocity and
turbo frequency being considered
however its TVP is cut nearly in half at
65 and my hunch is that they can rate it
at 65 because of the block is 2.8 yeah
right
okay so moving on the 10 the i7 lineup
is interesting at 10 700 K for all
intensive purposes with the exception of
one additional technology that we can
find which is the turbo Max technology
3.0 because it doesn't have velocity
boost it's at 99 hundred K yeah it is a
rebranded 99 hundred K for 374 dollars
so anyone that maybe ran out and bought
a 19 100 K right now I feel bad
yeah because he paid if you return it
and wait like 1 1 the problem with CPUs
a lot of have restocking fees you know
but if you can return it I would return
it and trying it a 10 700 K just because
you're gonna save a hundred and a
hundred at least a hundred dollars
provided you haven't like used you're
not using the night-night okay as an
upgrade on the motherboard that supports
it cuz you ain't have to bite over the
board with the 10 sec oh yeah per point
oh the only benefit we can really seem
to find is that there's it's the same
turbo frequency four point seven all
cord eight 416 thread has the same up to
40 PC lanes now that that's how we kind
of deduced the 16x on CPU and then the
rest on PCH because we know the Niner KS
16 credit on the arc up to 3.8 base
clock up to 5.0 until Turbo technology
2.0 the only thing it doesn't have as a
velocity turbo boost and then the just
like the 900 series there's a non K
version and an F version of both so it
looks like four SKUs it's really only
two whoa check this out the difference
between a GPU price there is $25 but
it's 16 on the i-9 okay so this is my
theory is that the f-series is just all
the processors that Bend with a the
processor part Bend correctly and then
the GP part failed I just think it's
funny that when you lop off the same
part is two different prices I mean it I
could even be bad cop and say I don't
even think it's that I just think it's
greed they want to keep that price as
close to 500 as possible right at the
high end
what no yeah that's a good point because
if you're already going to spend four
hundred and seventy seven dollars and
what and just have been 16 more yeah
which is my recommendation actually get
that get the K not the KF yeah on any of
these skews because that internal that I
GPU is very handy when troubleshooting
and also if anything if you're going to
be
you can use IGP as an encoder and then
that way your GPU can just play a game
yeah
so the ten 600k though this is the one
I'm most excited to get my hands on it
kind of sucks because I bet you Intel's
not gonna send any reviewers that CPU
because I feel like this is gonna be
potentially this sweet spot on not the
budget but yeah let's just say
reasonable build budgets yes each
other's i6 Cornwell thread where if you
look at the 600 version now the 9600
it's just six core six thread so you're
getting hyper threading so that's
another thing that changed with the 10
series all of them have kept your
threading go follow them all the way
down to the i3 yeah so you're getting
double the threads at the same tier
right it's two hundred and sixty-two
dollars and this particular one though
if you're on a if you're on i-4 you
really on a budget I might recommend
going with the KF cuz it's like I said
it's twenty-five dollars cheaper two
hundred and thirty seven dollars six
four twelve thread and it doesn't have
turbo boost 3.0 it doesn't have thermal
velocity boost but at this point I don't
think it matters because it's not gonna
be a very hot part when it's a case
you're easy didn't like these services
like these two release figures all go
out the window soon as you start
manually overclocking they go out the
window the second you hook it up to an
asus motherboard cuz they like to just
yeah if you enable core enhancement
remember those two modes disabled an
idea but at two hundred and thirty-seven
dollars it's a up to four point eight
single core for the Turbo Boost 2.0 yeah
up to four point five all or for all
four I bet you we can get that five gigs
all court I bet you if not at least four
point eight at least four point eight
which is fine because the difference
between four eight and five oh you're
not gonna really notice yeah and six
threads are still enough for most games
right now twelve threads
alright so I feel like that's plenty for
you to just let just set two cores four
threads to like your your your live
stream and we need to do a video about
showing people how to set up affinity
and setting like dedicated chops off
CPUs to a live stream yeah and then your
GPU or to your games because you don't
need a live stream computer these days
you don't need to have a second
streaming computer it's a waste of money
a lot of streamers are still advocating
it it's bullsh and I'm gonna show why
and that's the difference between like
streamers that are gamers and like oh I
can build a computer and don't know what
they're doing versus people who do know
what they're doing and
really want to put a big fat nil in that
Coffman people thinking that you need a
live stream computer to get a good
stream but moving on but go way down
here the i3 i3 starts at the 10400 no no
10 10 3 20 the 10 320 it's a fork or
eight thread it's funny
look at these specs it's up to 3.8 base
up to 4.6 turbo up to 4.4 all for fork
or a thread it's an i3 7700 k4 under bud
for 150 bucks
Phil's looking up the specs on a hundred
and fifty dollar 3400 G yeah which is
Vega graphics in it yeah which you would
never be able to really game with the
UHD graphic 6:30 with Vega at least you
have a chance
so the yeah 34 energy it's base clock
3.7 gigahertz 3.8 on the intel macs
moose clock up to 4.2 4 points 4.4
oh no four point six on the turbo boost
of to core and in for for awkward oh
right and there max lisa sigell floors
so a single floor 4.2 we know that none
of those CPUs really go past 4.2 without
a lot of work it's gonna be a fun budget
build that's us huh
all enjoys i'm gonna do that shootout
what would you do would you go into your
would you go with the tenant i've got to
build both and see i don't know i don't
think those two hundred megahertz on the
intel cider didn't know that'll either
gonna make up the IPC and we're still
ignoring the fact that like it literally
comes with a freakin 11 CU Vega unit and
then for the for the extreme budget
builds the only excuse that don't have
hyper-threading are the pentium series
and they've got a bunch of those now I
know I like the pinions do have hyper
threading like two core for thread it's
the seller runs that don't have it okay
so it's it's everything except the so
around I saw interesting thoughts on the
10900 T that's the same name remember
the 1090 t4 entail are able the t-series
is there oh yeah with the house AMD yeah
you're right it was it was the first
beam up well Intel has an extra 0 so
they're better there are zero there yes
let's go ahead and wrap up this video
about recommendations one you know as
well as I do you just like AMD the
second video we can't take their slides
as gospel we have to do independent
testing that's going to be us to me line
is Paul Kyle and a non tech gamers Nexus
hardware connects all of us are gonna
probably have fairly different opinions
and results going to the truth will have
different testing methodologies will
have different ideologies and you need
to watch as many roundups as you can
watches read as many written articles
trying absorb as much information I
can't I can't say right now which I
would recommend we started this
conversation in different take and the
problem is there's too many but if but
yeah but if on which you would go if if
you were just like look I got 500 bucks
to spend on a CPU and I want the holy
gaming only we really only gaming and I
want 240 FPS and you can still live
stream with that CPU but you're not
you're not working in professional
workspace yeah workflow we know for a
fact you're gonna get more FPS out of
Intel then you're gonna get with AMD's
current offerings at the same price
point any price point to be honest
because we know plot speed is king when
it comes to games yeah right now they're
even advertising here up to 33% more FPS
versus previous gen Astrix number
footnote to 13% more in previous gen
astrick for third footnote for there's
too many different aspects the bottom
line is negative just better mega
tasking versus a three-year-old PC but
you know join and these can only
multitask but like here's the bottom
line we already know that today we're
the 20 atti
if you overclock on 9900 K which is
already a fast CPU in terms of frequency
you gain at PS when you overclock it you
gain FPS when you push the memory like
we showed yep so we know that this CPU
being more cores
higher frequency with more course is
going to be faster if the question is
whether or not you know that you're
willing to trade off the mega tasking
gaming performance versus the better
multi-threading performance Ovens 3900 X
at the same price point from AMD which
has 12 cores 24 threads my thing here
though that is making this interesting
is the gap between the eight core 16
thread 1900 K
and the 12-core 24 thread 3900 X is now
narrower with more clock speed so we
might see this edge of the AMD in some
multi-threaded performance that's gonna
be interesting to test for sure well gee
3950 X yeah that's $250 more than these
CPUs the $700 plus C paper so that's
irrelevant but this also is only gonna
be incentivized to be purchased by
someone looking to build a fully new
system because 0 backwards-compatibility
you need a new motherboard to go with
the new CPUs and it's kind of telling
that they caught the world's fastest
gaming processor wall what else do they
call it hold on real-world performance
in real world perform in Vietnam and
then it's Intel's fastest gaming
processor in in Argentina Chile Egypt
Japan El Salvador Guatemala Honduras
Italy Japan Panama Peru Saudi Arabia the
US they can say oh I have the world's
fastest processor just like how it's the
oh yeah it's the world's fastest
processor in the US world
yeah just like holla to the world series
alright guys that's what we know we're
gonna obviously test these claims see
what we can come up with and right now
we can't give you a clear decide answer
on what to buy because if you look at
building a brand-new system from scratch
Intel might have caught up to AMD with
less cores which is funny this is our
gaming asterisk or gaming ashtrays still
on 14 nanometer you know to be honest
though to wrap this up I don't care what
they call it I don't care what process
it is I don't care what nanometer I care
about the end of the day what
performance I get only is only the super
tech grooves care about like what's
under the hood yeah yeah kick talk about
the quarter-mile time guys who cares how
you get there slingshot me across the
line for all I care there's only your
knee what you need
[Music]